---
title: "Mike Essl interview"
date: "2024-08-27T14:07:22.000Z"
tags:
  - "Bookmarks"
  - "Design"
  - "Education"
---

_Bookmarked [Survey: Mike Essl - Features - Education - e-flux](https://www.e-flux.com/education/features/546003/survey-mike-essl)._

> Design won’t change the world, but it can help. Posters and banners make noise, but the students holding those signs made the difference. Students can use design to mobilize, get the word out, and keep the pressure up, but you gotta show up and organize to make a difference.

Some good stuff in this interview. This fall, I'm coming up on my 20th anniversary of declaring a major in fine arts and graphic design. Mike Essl reflects on how his teaching has changed over the years:

> On my first day as a foundation-year student at Cooper Union, preparing to study in all the disciplines offered by the School of Art, my professor reminded us that only five percent of students who apply are accepted and that if we couldn’t “hack it,” then there was a line of great students waiting to take our place. I’ll confess that when I started teaching I carried that attitude with me into the classroom. It took time, but after working with and listening to my students, I realized that it was unfair to compare my experience as a student with their experiences. My strategy now is to meet students where they are and to evaluate their work on growth, not virtuosity. I’ve taught at a few other art schools, and I’m thankful to see the “sink or swim” philosophy replaced with inclusiveness, mentorship, career assistance, and access to mental health services.
