---
title: Areal
date: 2025-08-24T13:16:53.540-06:00
tags:
  - "Type"
---

The artsy web bookmarking site Are.na commissioned Dinamo type foundry Dinamo to make a revival typeface based off Arial. The new design, [Areal](https://are.al.are.na/), is Are.na's [new default typeface](https://www.are.na/editorial/introducing-areal-are-nas-new-typeface): 

> ...When we simplified the Are.na interface in 2014 to the structure that it currently uses [with the breadcrumb navigation], we adopted Arial across the board. When we made this interface change, our desire was to be as default as we could so that Are.na wouldn’t get in the way of the content. In other words, we wanted Are.na to look good, but to fade into the background as much as possible...This is a very long-winded way of saying that the reason we wanted to use Arial is because it doesn’t have much of a “look” at all. Of course, like we’ve been talking about, it does have this history and it’s used as a default and there are all of these connotations that get imbued into it. But I still think it’s about the closest you can get to that.

In the conversation, the team compared the process of redrawing Arial from digital screenshots to that of re-writing the website's front-end so that the user interface appears exactly the same. I think that is a fine comparison. I've been using Are.na since October 2016 (I'm also an investor), and I've longe appreaciated the sophisticated but austere UI.

Part of me wishes this announcement came out on April 1st or something.

